docs/developers.rst, before:

**********
Developers
**********

This page serves a couple purposes. First, it displays a list of the developers on the project. Second (and more importantly) it helps new developers become acquainted with the process of making changes to our project's codebase.

Practice Making a Contribution: Add Yourself to this List!
==========================================================


To add your name to this page, read the "getting started" and "contributing" sections. Clone the repository and checkout the ``core`` branch. You can add your name to this page by navigating to ``docs/developers.rst`` and adding your name and any other fun stuff you want. Then, commit your changes, marge with ``core``, and push to the repository. You don't need to create an issue page, but you can create a feature branch with your name on it to practice. If you're not familiar with reStructured Text (which is the format of this documentation), you can copy from the following and change it to suit you:

.. code:: rst

    .. image:: https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1oL-28VgV4hHCtdCMqiIQOf7lbd68C2Vz
    :width: 250
    :alt: Picture of Mike!

    *Mike Sutherland* -- UCI Mechanical Engineering, 2022

    Interests: programming, surfing, control systems, and robotics.

List of Project Developers
==========================

.. image:: https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1oL-28VgV4hHCtdCMqiIQOf7lbd68C2Vz
  :width: 250
  :alt: Picture of Mike!

*Mike Sutherland* -- UCI Mechanical Engineering, 2022

Interests: programming, surfing, control systems, and robotics.

Commit message:

#27 finished closing PRs section of the guide

docs/developers.rst, after:

.. _developers:

**********
Developers
**********

This page serves a couple purposes. First, it displays a list of the developers on the project. Second (and more importantly) it helps new developers become acquainted with the process of making changes to our project's codebase.

Practice Making a Contribution: Add Yourself to this List!
==========================================================

You can practice what you have learned in :ref:`make-contribution` by adding yourself to the list of developers on this page. **If you have not read that section, go back and read it before continuing!**

After cloning the repository, navigate to ``docs/developers.rst`` and open it in your favorite code editor. Add your name and any other details you want. If you want to add an image, you can use any http link, or you can commit (small) images by adding them to the ``_static`` directory. Then link them by changing ``[URL]`` to ``_static/your-image.png``.

If you want to practice building a local copy of the documentation to see a preview of your changes, go to :ref:`build-doc` to see how to do that.

If you're not familiar with reStructured Text (which is the format of this documentation), you can copy from the following and change it to suit you:

.. code:: rst

    .. image:: [URL]
    :width: 250
    :alt: Picture of Mike!

    *Mike Sutherland* -- UCI Mechanical Engineering, 2022

    Interests: programming, surfing, control systems, and robotics.

    ----

List of Project Developers
==========================

.. image:: https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1oL-28VgV4hHCtdCMqiIQOf7lbd68C2Vz
  :width: 250
  :alt: Picture of Mike!

*Mike Sutherland* -- UCI Mechanical Engineering, 2022

Interests: programming, surfing, control systems, and robotics.

----
